# 1. Checking the UID of a User Account
The objective of problem #1 is to find the UID of a user account using the `id` command. In Unix-like systems, the privileges of a user account is determined based on the UID stored in the `/etc/passwd` file.

## 1.1 Extra Lab #1: Users with the Same UID
Then, what if there are two or more user accounts who have the same UID in `/etc/passwd`? Let’s check this! Note that you should be the root user or have the root privileges (i.e., using the `sudo` command).

1. Add user accounts `ntu2023` and `cju2023` then set passwords for them.
```
# adduser ntu2023
# adduser cju2023
```

2. Switch to ntu2023 (or cju2023) then create a file in the home directory.
```
# su ntu2023
$ echo "Hello" > ~/ntu
```

3. Make that only ntu2023 (and root) can read the file (i.e., set its permissions to 600).
```
$ chmod 600 ~/ntu
```

4. Switch back to root (or simply open a new terminal emulator) then to cju2023. Try to read the ntu2023’s file. Your access to the file would be denied since it can be accessed only by ntu2023 and root (permission 600).
```
$ exit
# su cju2023
$ cat ~ntu2023/ntu
cat: /home/ntu2023/ntu: Permission denied
```

5. Now let’s modify the UID of cju2023. To this end, first switch back to root then open /etc/passwd with text editor vi (or nano). 
```
$ exit
# vi /etc/passwd
```

6. Change the UID (and GID optionally) of cju2023 to that of ntu2023. Save the file then quit the editor.
```
ntu2023:x:515:515::/home/ntu2023:/bin/bash
cju2023:x:515:515::/home/ntu2023:/bin/bash
```

7. Switch to cju2023 then try to read the file again. You’re now able to access the file! This is because the UID of cju2023 stored in /etc/passwd is equal to that of ntu2023. That is, you’re now virtually ntu2023 although you’ve logged in with cju2023.
```
# su cju2023
bash: /home/cju2023/.bashrc: Permission denied
$ cat ~ntu2023/ntu
Hello
```

⇒ Note that you may face the above error while switching the account. This is because other user accounts, except cju2023 and root, are not allowed to execute file .bashrc (You may check the file permissions).

Through this lab, we can know that the privileges of a user account is solely determined based on the UID stored in /etc/passwd. So, system administrators should check if user accounts with the same UID exist in /etc/passwd.

## 1.2 Extra Lab #2: Non-Root User with UID ‘0’
Then, what if there is a non-root user whose UID is 0 (zero)? Let’s check this! Note that you should be the root user or have the root privileges (i.e., using command sudo).

1. Switch to ntu2023 then try to read file /etc/shadow. Your access to the file would be denied. This is because the file can be accessed only by root and ntu2023 doesn't have the root privileges.
```
# su ntu2023
$ cat /etc/shadow
cat: /etc/shadow: Permission denied
```

2. Now let’s set the UID of ntu2023 to 0 (zero). Switch back to root then open /etc/passwd with text editor vi (or nano). 
```
$ exit
# vi /etc/passwd
```

3. Set the UID of ntu2023 to 0. Save the file then quit the editor.
```
ntu2023:x:0:0:/home/ntu2023:/bin/bash
```

4. Switch to ntu2023 then you will see the root prompt (#). Now you’re root! Of course, you are now able to freely access /etc/shadow.
```
# su ntu2023
# cat /etc/shadow
```

Again, we can check that the privileges of a user account is solely determined based on the UID in /etc/passwd. So, system administrators should check if a non-root account whose UID is 0 exists in /etc/passwd.

## 1.3 Extra Lab #3: Passwordless User Account with the Root Privileges
In this extra lab, we will add a passwordless user account with the root privileges. Note that you should be the root user or have the root privileges (i.e., using command sudo).

1. Type as follows. The following command adds passwordless user account dudu2023 whose UID is 0.
```
# echo "dudu2023:U6aMy0wojraho:0:0:cju2023:/root:/bin/bash" >> /etc/passwd
```

2. Log out then log in with dudu2023. You don’t need a password to log in. By opening a terminal emulator, you would know that you’re root! Of course, you are now able to freely access /etc/shadow.
```
# cat /etc/shadow
```

By exploiting a race condition (or similar) vulnerability, even an attacker without the root privilege may be able to add such an account. Once the attacker has successfully added, the attacker may be able to freely access the system with the root privilege. So, system administrators should check if such an account exists in /etc/shadow.